ON THIS EDITION FOR SATURDAY,
JULY 12TH,
ISRAEL DESTROYS A MOSQUE IN GAZA
THAT IT SAYS WAS LOADED WITH
WEAPONS.
AND INTERCEPTS HAMAS
ROTHLISBERGER OVER TEL AVIV.
WE'LL HAVE A REPORT FROM ISRAEL.
A LEADING MILITARY ANALYST
WEIGHS IN ON THAT CONFLICT AND
THE
INTENSE NEW FIGHTING IN THE
UKRAINE.
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
PREPARING FOR THE INEVITABLE.
THE YEAR AFTER SOMEBODY PASSES
IS ONE OF THE MOST VULNERABLE
TIMES FOR IDENTITY THEFT.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISSUE STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK.
GOOD EVENING, THANKS FOR JOINING
US.
THE LATEST ROUND OF MIDDLE
EASTERN VIOLENCE TRIGGERED BY THE
KIDNAPPING AND MURDER OF THOSE
THREE JEWISH TEENAGERS
ESCALATED AGAIN TODAY.
TONIGHT ISRAEL SAID ITS IRON
DOME SYSTEM INTERCEPTED THREE
ROCKETS FIRED OVER TEL AVIV AND
THREE OTHERS NEAR JERUSALEM.
EARLIER TODAY ISRAELI BOMBS
DESTROYED A MOSQUE ON THE GAZA
STRIP.
ISRAEL SAID WEAPONS WERE BEING
STORED THERE.
AT LEAST 135 PALESTINIANS HAVE
DIED DURING THE RECENT FIGHTING.
FOR THE LATEST WE ARE JOINED
ONCE AGAIN TONIGHT FROM JERUSALEM
VIA SKYPE BY JOSEF FEDERMAN.
WHAT ISRAEL SAYS IS THE AREA WAS
USED TO STORE ROCKETS AND
OTHER WEAPONS.
THIS HAS BEEN A CHALLENGE, I
THINK FOR ISRAEL FROM DAY ONE.
IT SAYS THAT A LOT OF THE
WEAPONS IT'S TACKING ARE HIT NOT
GUILTY CIVILIAN AREAS LIKE
MOSQUES, SCHOOLS,
RES TERRIBLE AREAS,
AND IT SAYS IT IS TAKING
PRECAUTIONS TO AVOID DAMAGE TO
THESE
BUILDINGS AND TO CIVILIANS,
BUT IT IS STILL SOMETIMES THESE
ATTACKS TAKE PLACE.
WHAT ABOUT THE PACE OF ROCKET
FIRE FROM GAZA?
THE SITUATION IN THE SOUTH WAS A
LITTLE MORE CALM IN SOUTHERN
ISRAEL, THE HARDEST HIT AREA.
THAT SAID, THERE IS STILL DOZENS
OF ROCKETS TODAY,
I THINK OVER 60 THE LAST TIME I
CHECKED,
INCLUDING ONE THAT SET UP AIR
RAID SIRENS HERE IN JERUSALEM.
AND WHAT MORE ARE WE HEARING
ABOUT THE CIVILIAN CASUALTIES IN
GAZA?
WELL THE DEATH TOLL NOW,
OVERALL IN THIS OPERATION HAS
EXCEEDED 125,
I THINK IT IS UP TO 127 AT THIS
POINT.
BUT MANY, DOZENS, WE DON'T EVEN
KNOW THE EXACT NUMBER,
MANY OF THE DEAD ARE CIVILIANS.
IN SOME DAYS RELATIVES OF MEN
WHO WERE TARGETED BY ISRAEL.
AND OTHER TIMES, IT IS
ACCIDENTAL.
AND THIS IS AN ISSUE THAT HAS
ALWAYS BEEN A CHALLENGE FOR
ISRAEL, BECAUSE OF THE LANDSCAPE
IN GAZA.
YOU ARE DEALING WITH A VERY
DENSELY POPULATED URBAN LANDSCAPE
WHERE IT IS VERY DIFFICULT TO
PINPOINT,
AS HARD AS ISRAEL TRIES,
IT IS VERY DIFFICULT TO AVOID
THESE TYPE OF CASUALTIES.
SO TODAY, FOR EXAMPLE,
WE SAW AN ATTACK THAT HIT A
CENTER FOR THE DISABLED,
AND TWO WOMEN WHO WERE SEVERELY
DISABLED WERE KILLED.
IS THERE AN ACTIVE CONVERSATION
OR DEBATE HAPPENING IN ISRAELI
SOCIETY ABOUT HOW LONG THIS
OPERATION SHOULD TAKE?
YEAH.
THERE SEEMS TO BE.
THERE ARE SIGNS THAT DIPLOMACY
IS STARTING TO TAKE HOLD.
WE SEE A MEETING OF THE SECURITY
COUNCIL TODAY CALLING ON
ISRAEL OR CALLING ON BOTH SIDES
FOR A CEASEFIRE.
AND AN INTERESTING STATEMENT
CAME OUT OF LONDON FROM THE
BRITISH FOREIGN MINISTER ALSO
CALLING FOR AN IMMEDIATE
CEASEFIRE EXPRESSING CONCERNS
ABOUT CIVILIAN CASUALTIES ON THE
PALESTINIAN SIDES AND ANNOUNCING
A NUMBER OF HIS COUNSELOR
PARTS,
INCLUDING JOHN KERRY WILL BE
MEETING TOMORROW TO DISCUSS
CEASEFIRE EFFORTS.
EVEN IF THERE ARE THESE OPTION
TO HIS MEDIATE A SETTLEMENT
WHETHER FROM THE U.S. OR ARAB
LEAGUE,
WOULD PRIME MINISTER NETANYAHU
CONSIDER THIS?
I HAVE BEEN IN TOUCH WITH HIS
OFFICE,
I HAVE BEEN SPEAKING TO ISRAELI
OFFICIALS ALL DAY.
THEY SAY IT CAN GO IN EITHER
DIRECTION.
THEY ARE READY TO KEEP ON
POUNDING TARGETS IN GAS.
ISRAEL SAYS IT IS GOING TO KEEP
ON PUSHING FORWARD,
NOT GOING TO BE DETERRED BY
INTERNATIONAL PRESSURE.
BUT WHEN ALL OF ITS ALLIES START
GANGING UP AND SAYING ENOUGH
IS ENOUGH, IT IS GOING TO HAVE
TO LISTEN.
I THINK OVER THE NEXT DAY OR
TWO,
YOU ARE GOING TO SEE MORE OF
THAT.
JOSEF FEDERMAN, THANKS SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
TRY TO PUT THE LATEST ROUND OF
FIGHTING BETWEEN ISRAEL AND
HAMAS IN A BROADER CONTEXT,
WE ARE JOINED TONIGHT BY ANTHONY
CORDESMAN OF THE CENTER FOR
STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL
STUDIES IN WASHINGTON.
CORDESMAN PREVIOUSLY SERVED IN
THE STATE DEPARTMENT AND WAS
THE DIRECTOR OF INTELLIGENCE
ASSESSMENT IN THE OFFICE OF THE
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.
SO LET'S TRY IT LAY OUT THE
OPTIONS FOR BOEING SIDES HERE.
LET --BOTH SIDES HERE.
THE ISRAELI SIDE.
THE ISRAELIS AT THIS POINT HAVE
FLOWN WELL OVER 1000 SORT TIS.
WITH AIR POWER THEY CAN GO ON
BUT IT IS A SLOW PROCESS OF
ATTRITION.
THE PALESTINIANS AND HAMAS HAVE
HAD PLENTY OF TIME TO RELOCATE
AND MOVE.
THEY CAN NOW, ALSO,
LAUNCH A GROUND DEFENSIVE AND
THAT CAN TAKE TWO FORMS.
ONE WOULD BE A LIMITED GROUND
DEFENSIVE AIMED AT HAMAS TARGETS
OUTSIDE THE CITIES,
THE OTHER WOULD BE ONE WHICH
WOULD TRY TO TAKE CONTROL OF
POPULATED AREAS,
WHICH WOULD MEAN A LOT MORE
FIGHTING BUT GIVE THEM DIRECT
CONTROL OVER THE GOVERNMENT, THE
STRUCTURE INSIDE GAZA.
THE PROBLEM WITH BOTH OF THOSE
OFFENSES IS THAT THEY WOULD
HAVE TO STAY THERE FOR A
CONSIDERABLE AMOUNT OF TIME,
AT A MINIMUM, TO HAVE AN IMPACT.
CONTROL A VERY LARGE PALESTINIAN
POPULATION.
BUT THE PROBLEM WITH STOPPING
IS,
THEY PROBABLY HAVE NOT REAL WHEN
I INTIMIDATED HAMAS -- REALLY
INTIMIDATED HAMAS ENOUGH TO MAKE
IT STOP FOR A LONG PERIOD OF
TIME AND MOST ISRAELI ESTIMATES
ARE THE ROCKETS ARE STILL
THERE AND NOT DESTROYED.
WHAT ABOUT THE OPTIONS FOR
HAMAS?
HAMAS'S OPTIONS ARE LIMITED.
THEY HAVE TRIED LIMITED RAIDS
OUTSIDE THE GAZA.
THEY HAVE FAILED, FRANKLY
BECAUSE SECURITY IS TOO TIGHT.
THEY CAN KEEP LAUNCHING ROCKETS
AND THEY HAVE DONE THAT AT
LEAST OVER THE LAST FEW DAYS, IN
SPITE OF ALL THE AIR STRIKES.
BUT THESE HAVE MORE OF A
PSYCHOLOGICAL THAN A MILITARY
EFFECT.
BASICALLY THEY KEEP SENDING
SIGNALS TO ISRAEL THAT HAMAS CAN
STRIKE DEEP BUT THEY ARE NOT
LETHAL OR ACCURATE ENOUGH TO HIT
KEY TARGETS AND SO FAR THEY
HAVEN'T PRODUCED EITHER
CASUALTIES
OR MEANINGFUL STRATEGIC RESULTS.
HAMAS CAN DECLARE A CEASEFIRE,
REGROUP,
TRY TO CAPITALIZE ON THE
FIGHTING POLITICALLY,
ACCUSE ISRAEL OF WAR CRIMES AND
A WHOLE LITANY OF CHARGES THEY
HAVE MADE IN THE PAST,
BUT THAT HAS NOT GIVEN HAMAS ANY
REAL BENEFITS, TO DATE.
THE ONE THING THAT IS
POTENTIALLY OMINOUS IS THERE HAVE
BEEN
STRIKES FOR THE FIRST TIME FROM
LEBANON.
EVIDENTLY FROM HEZBOLLAH.
NOW A TWO FRONT WAR WOULD HAVE A
VERY DIFFERENT CHARACTER,
AND THE MISSILES IN HEZBOLLAH --
MISSILES IN HEZBOLLAH HANDS
ARE MORE ACCURATE AND MORE
LETHAL.
WHAT ABOUT THE COSTS HERE?
THESE AIR STRIKES OVER TIME COST
HUMAN LIVES AND CASUALTIES AS
WELL.
THE HUMAN LIVES AND CASUALTIES
ARE VERY SERIOUS.
YOU HAVE OVER 100 DEAD,
OVER 600 WOUNDED AND THE NUMBERS
KEEP COUNTING.
BUT THE THING TO REMEMBER ABOUT
GAZA IS,
THAT THOSE DIRECT CASUALTIES ARE
ONLY A SMALL PART OF THE
PROBLEM.
THE 1.8 MILLION PEOPLE, ACTUALLY
MORE THAN THAT,
MOST OF THEM ARE VERY YOUNG.
IT IS A VERY YOUNG POPULATION.
THEY HAVE ALREADY BEEN ISOLATED
FOR YEARS,
AS A RESULT OF THE LAST ROUND OF
FIGHTING.
THE SCHOOLS, THE MEDICAL
SERVICES,
THE JOB OPPORTUNITIES ARE
TERRIBLE.
AND YOU SEE, BASICALLY, THAT IN
THE AREA AROUND GAZA,
YOU HAVE A PER CAPITA INCOME
WHICH IS ABOUT HALF THAT ON THE
WEST BANK.
YOU HAVE FAR LESS DEVELOPMENT,
THIS IS A PROBLEM WHERE EVERY
ROUND OF FIGHTING DOES MORE
DAMAGE TO THE PALESTINIANS AND
GAZA.
YES.
AND THE QUESTION ALWAYS FOR
HAMAS IS,
CAN YOU GET THE PEOPLE TO PUT UP
WITH THIS?
CAN YOU KEEP THEM FOCUSED AND
ANGRY AT ISRAEL?
OR DO THEY BECOME FOCUSED AND
ANGRY AT YOU?
ANTHONY CORDESMAN, THANKS SO
MUCH.
IN KABUL,
AFGHANISTAN AFTER A SECOND DAY
OF PROTRACTED TALKS SECRETARY
OF STATE JOHN KERRY ANNOUNCED
THERE WILL BE AN INTERNATIONALLY
SUPERVISED AUDIT OF THE
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION THERE.
BOTH CANDIDATES HAVE AGREED TO
ABIDE BY THE RESULTS.
THE NATION'S FOREIGN MINISTER
ABDULLAH TRAILED
FINANCE MINISTER ASHRAM GHANI
AHMADZAI AFTER THE RECENT RUN
OFF ELECTION.
BUT ABDULLAH CLAIMED THERE WAS
SIGNIFICANT FRAUD.
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT HAS
BROUGHT CHARGES AGAINST A CHINESE
BUSINESSMAN ACCUSED OF HACKING
COMPUTERS AND STEALING
SENSITIVE INFORMATION FROM U.S.
DEFENSE CONTRACTORS.
INCLUDING BOEING AND LOCKHEED
MARTIN.
SOME OF WHAT WAS ALLEGEDLY
STOLEN HAD TO DO WITH TWO OF THE
UNITED STATES'S MOST ADVANCED
FIGHTER JETS THE F-22 AND F-35.
THE ACCUSED MAN IS CURRENTLY IN
CANADA BUT IS EXPECTED TO BE
EXTRADITED TO THE UNITED STATES.
AFTER A RECENT LULL, THE
CONFLICT IN EASTERN UKRAINE,
ONCE AGAIN, IS INTENSIFYING.
UKRANIAN GOVERNMENT TROOPS ARE
AMASSING NEAR DONESTK,
A CITY OF A MILLION PEOPLE FOR A
LIKELY GROUND OFFENSIVE
AGAINST RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS WHO
RETREATED THERE.
THIS,
A DAY AFTER THE REBELS KILLED
MORE THAN 20 GOVERNMENT TROOPS
IN A MISSILE ATTACK.
FOR MORE ABOUT THE SITUATION
THERE,
WE ARE ONCE AGAIN JOINED BY
ANTHONY CORDESMAN.
SO WHAT ARE THE PRO RUSSIAN
SEPARATISTS'S CHANCES WITHOUT
RUSSIAN INVOLVEMENT?
THEY SEEM TO BE LIMITED.
THEY ARE STILL NOT UNIFIED.
THEY ARE NOW CONCENTRATED IN ONE
MAJOR URBAN AREA.
THEY, AT LEAST,
ARE COMPLAINING THAT THEY ARE
RUNNING OUT OF AMMUNITION,
RUNNING OUT OF SUPPLIES, THEY
HAVE MONEY PROBLEMS,
THEIR WEAPONS SIMPLY DON'T
COMPETE IN ANY SENSE WITH THE
UKRANIAN FORCES.
AND THESE DO NOT SEEM TO BE THE
KIND OF TRAINED FORCES,
IN ANY SENSE, THAT EXISTED IN
THE CRIMEA.
MANY OF THEM SEEM TO BE PEOPLE
WITH NO REAL MILITARY
BACKGROUND OR CAPABILITY FOR
FIGHTING YOUR REGULAR WARFARE.
THE PROBLEM IS, HOWEVER, FOR THE
UKRANIAN FORCES,
MOVING INTO URBAN WARFARE IS A
MASSIVE PROBLEM.
YOU HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT THE
POPULATION.
YOU HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT
BUILDINGS, YOU HAVE VERY SHORT
AREAS,
RANGES, LINE OF SIGHT WHERE YOUR
HEAVY WEAPONS ARE HARD TO USE.
SO IT IS A PROBLEM FOR BOTH
SIDES.
IN BALANCE, HOWEVER,
THE EVIDENCE SEEMS TO BE THAT
RUSSIA IS PULLING BACK,
IT IS NOT ACTIVELY SUPPORTING
THE PRO RUSSIAN FORCES,
THE INDEPENDENCE FORCES.
IT SEEMS TO BE MOVING TOWARD A
POSITION WHERE, BASICALLY,
IT CAN LEAVE THE UKRAINE IN A
STATE OF ALMOST CONSTANT TENSION
IN THE EAST, POOR,
WITHOUT ENOUGH AID FROM THE
OUTSIDE TO HELP ITS ECONOMY
RECOVER,
AND ESSENTIALLY FIGHT MORE OF A
POLITICAL THAN A MILITARY
BATTLE.
BRIEFLY WHAT ABOUT THE LONGER
ECONOMIC COSTS TO UKRAINE IF
RUSSIA WANTS TO INCREASE NATURAL
GAS PRICES?
AS THEY SAY THEY DO?
WELL THE NATURAL GAS PRICES
RUSSIA HAS PROPOSED WOULD
BANKRUPT
THE COMPANY.
BUT THEN THE COUNTRY IS ALREADY
BANKRUPT.
ONE THING TO REMEMBER ABOUT THE
UKRAINE IS IT HAS HAD ONE OF
THE WORST GOVERNMENTS OF ANY OF
THE COUNTRIES IN EASTERN
EUROPE.
IT HAS SEEN A STEADY DECLINE IN
DEVELOPMENT,
HAS FAILED TO MEET THE NEEDS OF
THE PEOPLE TO EITHER IMPROVE
SERVICES OR ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT.
UH-HUH.
SO YOU HAD A CRISIS POINT THAT
LED TO THE OVERTHROW OF THE
PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT,
AND IT DOESN'T TAKE MUCH TO KEEP
THE UKRAINE VERY POOR AND
VERY UNSTABLE.
ANTHONY CORDESMAN, THANKS SO
MUCH.
THE FDA IS WARNING A POPULAR
LAPAROSCOPIC SURGICAL PROCEDURE
TO REMOVE FIBROIDS AND PERFORM
HISTORY RESPECT MS.
.
MIGHT SPREAD UNDETECTED CANCER
CELLS TO OTHER PARTS OF THE
BODY.
THE PROCESS KNOWN AS
MORCELLATION INVOLVES ELECTRONIC
TOOLS TO
GRIND DOWN FIBROIDS.
IT REQUIRES A SMALLER INCISION,
CAUSES LESS PLEADING AND
TYPICALLY MEANS LESS TIME IN THE
HOSPITAL.
AN FDA ADVISORY PANEL SAYS WOMEN
SHOULD BE PRESENTED WITH A
CONSENT FORM ADVISING THEM OF
THE RISK.
A NEW MEDICAL STUDY CONDUCTED BY
EPIDEMIOLOGISTS AT HARVARD
FOUND MEN THAT UNDERGO
VASECTOMIES ARE 20% MORE LIKELY
TO DIE
OF PROSTATE CANCER.
AT RISK ARE THOSE WHO HAVE THE
PROCEDURE BEFORE THEIR MID-30S.
THE STUDY WAS PUBLISHED LAST
MONDAY IN THE JOURNAL OF CLINICAL
ONCOLOGY.
AMAZON.COM IS FEUDING WITH THE
FRENCH GOVERNMENT.
LAST MONTH IN AN EFFORT TO
PROTECT THE OWNERS OF INDEPENDENT
BOOKSTORES THE FRENCH PARLIAMENT
PASSED A BILL MAKING IT
ILLEGAL FOR ONLINE RETAILERS TO
SHIP BOOKS FOR FREE.
NOW AMAZON SAYS IT WILL SHIP ITS
BOOKS THERE FOR A SINGLE
EUROPEAN CENT.
ITS DECISION IT SAYS WILL
GUARANTEE THE LOWEST PRICE
POSSIBLE
NOT LAST SURVIVING ORIGINAL
MEMBER OF THE BAND THE RAMONES
HAS DIED.
DRUMMER TOMMY RAMONES WAS 65.
IT WAS INDUCTED INTO THE ROCK N
ROLL HALL OF FAME 12 YEARS AGO.
AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
TONIGHT SOMETHING YOU MIGHT NOT
HAVE GIVEN A LOT OF THROAT TO,
BUT INEVITABLY WILL AFFECT THOSE
CLOSEST TO YOU.
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT HELPING
YOUR LOVED ONES CLEAN UP YOUR
DIGITAL FOOTPRINT AFTER YOU DIE.
IT'S BECOMING A MORE AND MORE
COMPLICATED JOB.
THERE ARE NEARLY 4 BILLION
REGISTERED E-MAIL ACCOUNTS AND
MORE
THAN A BILLION FACEBOOK ACCOUNTS
WORLDWIDE.
IN THE U.S. ALONE,
MORE THAN HALF OF ADULTS ARE NOW
USING THE INTERNET FOR
BANKING.
AND ACCORDING TO ONE STUDY,
NEARLY HALF OF BILLS ARE PAID
ONLINE.
BUT WHAT HAPPENS TO ALL THAT
ONLINE INFORMATION AFTER WE ARE
GONE?
THE DIGITALLY DEPARTED.
DO YOU HAVE AN E-MAIL ACCOUNT?
A FACEBOOK PAGE?
DO YOU BANK ONLINE?
SHOP ONLINE?
PAY YOUR GAS, LIGHT OR CABLE TV
BILL OVER THE INTERNET?
I HAVE JUST LAID OUT MORE THAN A
HALF DOZEN ACCOUNTS MANY OF
US HAVE.
LIKELY EACH WITH ITS OWN
PASSWORD.
THESE ACCOUNTS DON'T DIE WITH
US.
THE PASSWORDS TO EACH OF THEM
ARE OFTENTIMES LOCKED AWAY WITH
ONLY ONE PERSON, THE DECEASED.
WHICH MEANS THAT VALUABLE ONLINE
ASSETS COULD BE LOST FOREVER.
OR BE FOUND BY THOSE LOOKING TO
EXPLOIT THEM.
TAKE THE CASE OF GLENN
WILLIAMSON.
A TECH ENTREPRENEUR IN PORTLAND,
OREGON.
TWO YEARS AGO HE GOT THE WORST
NEWS POSSIBLE.
I WAS IN THE PHILIPPINES
SPEAKING AT A CONFERENCE.
WHEN YOUR PHONE GOES OFF 15
TIMES AND IT IS 3:00 IN THE
MORNING IN THE UNITED STATES,
YOU HAVE A BAD FEELING.
GLENN'S 73-YEAR-OLD MOTHER, LEE,
HAD DIED.
AS HER FIDUCIARY AND AS A 25
YEAR VETERAN OF THE TECH WORLD,
IT FELL TO HIM TO MANAGE HER
ONLINE ACCOUNTS.
I KNEW MY MOM, BEING A COOL
GRANDMA, WAS ON TWITTER.
I KNEW SHE HAD A YAHOO ACCOUNT
SO WE HAD A BASELINE TO START.
BUT THAT IS ALL WE KNEW.
Reporter: AFTER 20 HOURS OF
SEARCHING GLENN FOUND 13 ACCOUNTS
BELONGING TO HIS MOTHER,
INCLUDING E-MAIL,
SOCIAL MEDIA AND SHOPPING
ACCOUNTS.
SO WE BROKE IT DOWN INTO
CATEGORIES.
TRAVEL, SENTIMENTAL, SECURITY,
AND BASICALLY WE SEARCHED ON
ABOUT 75 DIFFERENT SITES.
Reporter: SOME HAD REAL VALUE.
AFTER GOING THROUGH ALL THE
AIRLINES,
UNITED DID INDEED HAVE MY MOM AS
A CUSTOMER,
AND THERE WAS 54,000 MILES THAT
WE WERE ABLE TO RETRIEVE FOR
OUR FAMILY.
Reporter: ALL THIS, WHILE HE WAS
GRIEVING.
IT IS A PAINFUL, LONG PROCESS.
AND EVERYBODY MEANS WELL.
BUT IF ONE MORE PERSON TELLS YOU
THEY ARE SORRY,
IT IS LIKE OKAY,
I JUST NEED TO KNOW DID SHE HAVE
AN ACCOUNT OR NOT?
WILLIAMSON AND HIS WIFE ARE
ONLINE SAVVY,
RELATIVELY YOUNG AND IT WAS
TOUGH TO FIND ALL THE ACCOUNTS.
THE AVERAGE PERSON,
ESPECIALLY IF THE AVERAGE PERSON
IS IN THEIR 60s,
IT IS A VERY,
VERY DIFFICULT PROCESS -E
GLENN'S PROBLEMS MANAGING HIS
MOTHER'S ONLINE ESTATE HELPED
INSPIRE HIM TO START A BUSINESS
SOLUTION CALLED WEB CEASE.
AN ONLINE SERVICE THAT HELPS
PEOPLE SEARCH FOR THEIR DECEASED
LOVED ONE'S DIGITAL ASSETS.
IT USES BASIC INFORMATION AND
FINDS THE MAJOR ONLINE ACCOUNTS
LINKED TO IT.
AND ALTHOUGH IT WON'T SHUT DOWN
AN ACCOUNT FOR YOU,
IT WILL TELL YOU WHAT CAN BE
DONE UNDER A WEBSITE'S SPECIFIC
TERMS OF SERVICE.
MY MOM HAD AN ASSET INVENTORY OF
FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS BUT NOT OF
ALL THINGS DIGITAL AND THAT IS
REALLY WHAT WE PROVIDE TO THE
FAMILY.
IS WE PROVIDE THEM AT A HIGH
LEVEL, A DIGITAL ASSET INVENTORY.
SO YOU CAN SAY MY MOM WAS ON
AMAZON AND ITUNES.
THAT IS THE VALUE.
Reporter: WEB CEASE IS ONE OF A
HANDFUL OF WEBSITES THAT HAS
SPRUNG UP OVER THE LAST FEW
YEARS.
SITES LIKE NAVIGATOR, CAPSULE,
MY CYBER SAFE AND AFTER NOTE,
ALL OF THEM TRYING TO TACKLE
WHAT IS BECOMING AN INCREASINGLY
COMMON PROBLEM.
NOWADAYS,
EVERYONE KEEPS THEIR FILING
CABINETS ON THEIR COMPUTERS,
AND THEY MAY NOT HAVE SHARED
ACCESS TO THAT WITH THEIR
FAMILIES.
SUZANNE WALSH IS AN ESTATE
LAWYER FROM WEST HARTFORD,
CONNECTICUT.
I HAVE RECEIVED PANICKED CALLS
FROM FAMILY MEMBERS WHO DON'T
KNOW PASSWORDS, DON'T KNOW THE
NATURE OF THE ONLINE ACCOUNTS,
THEY SIMPLY KNOW MOM PAID BILLS
ONLINE AND TELEMAY NOT EVEN BE
SURE ABOUT THE BANK.
Reporter: WALL SAYS THE MAIN
PROBLEM IS ONE OF ACCESS.
IN MANY CASES WE HAVE MADE IT
VIRTUALLY ILLEGAL FOR ANYONE
ELSE TO USE OUR ONLINE ACCOUNTS.
IT STARTS WITH THOSE TERMS OF
SERVICE AGREEMENT THE FINE PRINT
OF THE ONLINE WORLD.
ONCE THE I AGREE BUTTON IS
PRESSED,
IT IS AS GOOD AS A CONTRACT.
MANY OF THEM PROHIBIT THE
SHARING OF PASSWORDS AND PROHIBIT
THIRD PARTY ACCESS.
SO RIGHT NOW,
THEY TEND TO BAR ANYBODY BUT THE
ACCOUNT HOLDER ACCESSING THE
ACCOUNT.
THAT MEANS EVEN IF THE ACCOUNT
HOLDER IS DEAD.
INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS SAY
THEY ARE FOLLOWING THE LETTER
OF THE LAW,
AS SPELLED OUT IN THE 1986
STORED COMMUNICATIONS ACT,
WHICH PROHIBITS ANYONE FROM
ACCESSING PRIVATE INFORMATION
ONLINE WITHOUT PERMISSION.
THE PROBLEM WITH FIDUCIARY
ACCESS NOW IS,
IT MAY BE A VIOLATION OF FEDERAL
PRIVACY LAW OR A COMPUTER
FRAUD AND ABUSE ACT.
IT MAY BE AN ACTUAL CRIMINAL ACT
TO VIOLATE THE TERMS OF
SERVICE AGREEMENT.
BUT BEING UNABLE TO ACCESS OR
SHUT DOWN A DECEASED LOVED ONE'S
ACCOUNT COULD HAVE UNFORESEEN
RISKS.
AS WILLIAMSON WILL TELL YOU.
THE YEAR AFTER SOMEBODY PASSES
IS ONE OF THE MOST VULNERABLE
TIMES FOR IDENTITY THEFT.
IT IS A HEINOUS CRIME.
WHAT THE BAD GUYS DO,
THEY'LL GO OUT THERE AND COMB
FOR RECENTLY DECEASE AND CREATE
A FAKE IDENTITY.
BECAUSE THE DECEASED DON'T CHECK
E-MAILS OR GET THE MAIL.
EVERY YEAR MORE THAN 2 MILLION
AMERICANS ARE VICTIMS OF
IDENTITY FRAUD AFTER DEATH.
THIEVES CAN APPLY FOR LOANS, OR
EVEN FILE FALSE TAX RETURNS.
MUCH OF THIS INFORMATION CAN BE
FOUND ON THE INTERNET THROUGH
SOMETHING AS SIMPLE AS A
SHOPPING ACCOUNT.
TO DATE,
ONLY SEVEN STATES HAVE ANY LAWS
ON THE BOOKS GOVERNING ONLINE
ESTATE PLANNING.
SUZANNE WALSH,
WHO CHAIRS A COMMITTEE ON THE
UNIFORM LAW COMMISSION,
AN ORGANIZATION WHICH DRAFTS
LAWS IT HOPES TO STANDARDIZE IN
ALL 50 STATES, IS HOPING TO
CHANGE THAT.
OVER THE PAST TWO YEARS,
WALSH'S COMMITTEE HAS BEEN
DRAFTING THE FIDUCIARY ASSETS
ACT.
WHICH IS GIVING THE FIDUCIARY
RISE THE SAME RIGHTS OVER ONLINE
ESTATES AS THEY NOW HAVE OVER
TRADITIONAL ESTATES.
THAT USED TO MEAN OPENING UP THE
MAILBOX,
OPENING UP THE FILE CABINET,
GOING THROUGH THE DESK OF THE
OUR ACT IS DESIGNED TO CONTINUE
THAT AND FACILITATE THAT,
GIVEN THE DIFFERENT NATURE OF
THE DIGITAL ASSETS.
THE BILL IS CURRENTLY BEING
REVIEWED BY THE UNIFORM LAW
COMMISSION AND WILL BE VOTED ON
FOR APPROVAL ON WEDNESDAY.
AFTER THAT,
IT WILL BE UP TO THE STATE
LEGISLATURES TO PROPOSE IT.
ON AVERAGE, CURRENT ACTS
APPROVED BY THE U LC,
HAVE ACHIEVED ENACTMENT IN A
LITTLE MORE THAN 20 DIFFERENT
STATES AND TERRITORIES.
BUT SUZANNE WALSH IS HOPEFUL THE
LEGISLATION WILL BE MORE
WIDELY RECEIVED.
WIDESPREAD ENACTMENT IS OUR
PRIMARY GOAL.
CERTAINLY WE HOPE AND EXPECT IT
WON'T TAKE MORE THAN A YEAR OR
TWO FOR MOST STATES TO ADOPT
THIS PRODUCT.
FOR NOW,
THERE ARE STEPS PEOPLE CAN TAKE
IT MAKE THE PROCESS OF DIGITAL
ESTATE MANAGEMENT EASIER ON NEXT
OF KIN.
FIRST CREATE AN INVENTORY LIST
OF ALL YOUR ONLINE ACCOUNTS AND
PASSWORDS FOR YOUR FIDUCIARY.
STIPULATE WHAT TO DO WITH YOUR
E-MAIL ACCOUNTS IN A WILL,
AND READ THE TERMS OF SERVICE
AGREEMENTS,
SO YOU CAN UNDERSTAND HOW OR
EVEN IF ACCESS TO YOUR ACCOUNTS
CAN BE GRANTED TO SOMEONE ELSE.
GLENN WILLIAMSON SAYS NO MATTER
WHAT STEPS YOU TAKE OR WHAT
LAWS ARE PASSED MANAGING A
DIGITAL ESTATE FOR A LOVED ONE
WILL
ALWAYS BE A LONG, ARDUOUS AND
PAINFUL PROCESS.
TO LEARN HOW TO BETTER MANAGE
YOUR OWN DIGITAL ESTATE,
VISIT NEWSHOUR PBS.ORG.
THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
SATURDAY.
THIS COMING TUESDAY,
FRONT LINE PREMIERES A PROGRAM
CALLED SEPARATE AND UNEQUAL.
IT EXAMS HOW PARENTS AND
BUSINESS LEADERS FROM BATON
ROUGE,
LOUISIANA ARE TRYING TO CREATE A
NEW CITY BECAUSE OF THEIR
FRUSTRATION WITH MANY OF THEIR
SCHOOL'S POOR PERFORMANCE.
HERE'S AN EXCERPT.
IF MARTIN LUTHER KING WERE TO
COME BACK AND SEE WHERE WE ARE
NOW,
I THINK HE WOULD BE SHOCK TO SEE
THE SCHOOLS ARE MORE
SEGREGATED THAN THEY WERE WHEN
HE DIED.
THE PROFESSOR SAYS A SERIES OF
SUPREME COURT RULINGS HAVE
ERODED MUCH OF THE PROGRESS MADE
SINCE THE LANDMARK BROWN
VERSUS THE BOARD OF EDUCATION
DECISION 60 YEARS AGO.
THE SUPREME COURT REALLY BEGAN
TO TURN BACKWARDS DECISIVELY ON
DESEGREGATION IN 1991.
SO BASICALLY,
THAT BEGAN THE DISMANTLING OF
DESEGREGATION PLANS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
AND ALMOST ALL OF THE LARGER
ONES HAVE BEEN DISMANTLED IN OUR
BIG CITIES.
IN BATON ROUGE, THE
DESEGREGATION ORDER WAS LIFTED IN
2003.
THE STUDENT POPULATION IS NOW
11% WHITE,
AND MANY IN THE SCHOOL DISTRICT
ARE CONCERNED THAT NUMBER WILL
DROP EVEN LOWER IF THE ST.
GEORGE PROPOSAL SUCCEEDS.
THAT IS NOT FAIR TO THE CHILDREN
WHO REMAIN BEHIND.
Reporter: BELINDA DAVIS,
A LOCAL ACTIVIST WITH THREE
CHILDREN IN THE BATON ROUGE
SCHOOLS,
IS VOWING TO PREVENT THE
CREATION OF THE NEW CITY OF ST.
GEORGE.
YOU WERE AUTOMATICALLY GOING TO
BE CREATING A CITY THAT IS
LESS DIVERSE THAN THE ONE YOU
ARE LEAVING.
AND WE HAVE ALL KINDS OF
SPECIALIZED SERVICES IN SCHOOLS
THAT
WE ARE ABLE TO PROVIDE,
BECAUSE OF THE SIZE OF OUR
SCHOOL DISTRICT.
I MEAN, THIS IS ABOUT LIVES,
THERE IS ABOUT POTENTIAL THAT WE
ARE SQUASHING BY CONTINUING
TO CARVE UP OUR SCHOOL
DISTRICTS,
THAT WE COULD DO WONDERFUL
THINGS TOGETHER.
WE ARE STRONGER AS ONE THAN WE
ARE BROKEN UP INTO PIECES.
THE FORMER BRITISH LEADER TONY
BLAIR MET IN CAIRO TODAY WITH
EGYPTIAN PRESIDENT IN AN EFFORT
TO END PROBLEMS WITH
ISRAEL AND HAMAS.
IN IRAQ,
GOVERNMENT FORCES AND SLIGHT
MILITIAS ARE BATTLING FOR CONTROL
OF A MILITARY BASE 60 MILES
NORTH OF BAGHDAD.
GUNMEN KILLED AT LEAST 20 PEOPLE
IN THE CAPITAL TODAY,
ALMOST ALL WOMEN.
WE HOPE TO SEE YOU BACK HERE
TOMORROW NIGHT.